Init announcement post on new visual identity (#564)
rladies/website: content/news/2026/03-29_rebrand-launch/index.en.md

- **The + does real work.** It signals broader inclusivity while keeping the identity our chapters and members have built together.

The decision was unanimous on the Board of Directors meeting, and was [announced in March 2025](/news/announcement/).

### The design process (2025–2026)

Once we made the decision, the next step was to start the process of creating the visual identity of RLadies+
We put out a [Call for Proposals](/news/cfp/) and commissioned [Science Graphic Design](https://www.sciencegraphicdesign.com/) to develop a full visual identity — logo, brand manual, templates, and imagery.

The design process began, and we actively sought feedback throughout. 
We set up a feedback form and reached out to all our chapters, chapter organizers, and community members who had engaged in the GitHub discussion.
We also directly contacted community members with diverse gender expressions to make sure the new branding felt right to the people it's meant to represent.

That feedback shaped the final result: a new visual identity designed with the community for the community.

> ## What does this mean on a day-to-day basis?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does this mean on a day-to-day basis for chapter organizers?
```

> ## What does this mean on a day-to-day basis for chapter organizers?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What does this mean on a day-to-day basis for chapter organizers and community members?
```

For most community members, things will feel familiar — with a few visible changes.

**The name and branding are updated.**
You'll see RLadies+ across our website, social media, slide templates, event graphics, and communications.
The new visual identity is designed to signal inclusivity more clearly than before.

**Chapters move at their own pace.**
We're a volunteer and decentralized organization, and we respect and understand that.
Chapter organizers are encouraged to adopt the new name and visual identity when they're ready, with end of 2026 as the target.

> We've provided a [full branding package](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB) — logos, templates, social media assets, manuals — so the transition doesn't mean extra design work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've provided a [full branding package](https://guide.rladies.org/organization/tech/brand/index.html) — including logos, templates, social media assets, manuals to streamline the transition for chapter organizers.
```

**Safety comes first.**
We recognize that chapters in countries where LGBTQ+ rights are criminalized may not be able to fully adopt the new branding for safety reasons.
Local organizers know their context best, and we trust them to make the right call for their community. 
Those chapters are encouraged to reach out to the Leadership Team to discuss how to move forward.

**Programs and infrastructure carry on.**
The mentoring program, Rotating Curation on Bluesky, abstract review, community Slack, blog — all of it continues as before, now under the RLadies+ banner.

**The mission hasn't changed — the name just caught up.**
We still do what we've always done: encourage, inspire, and empower people of underrepresented genders in the R community.
The + doesn't change our direction.
It makes our direction visible.

<!--

> TODO: Add link to the video of the Science Graphic Design presentation once available.

Author: ```suggestion
You can watch the RLadies+ Leadership Team and designers from Science Graphic Designs walk through the logo development and decision making, and the new branding materials they have provided us in the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iLaEtaDJ0FU?si=pUiAX1VesfhSd-lI" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

## Resources

> The new branding, with all the files and documents, is available in our - [Branding Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB?usp=sharing) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new branding, with all the files and documents, is available in our - [Branding Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB?usp=sharing) and referenced on our [organizational guidance](https://guide.rladies.org/organization/tech/brand/)
```

> The new branding, with all the files and documents, is available in our - [Branding Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB?usp=sharing) and referenced on our [organizational guidance](https://guide.rladies.org/organization/tech/brand/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new branding, with all the files and documents, is available in our [organizational guidance on branding](https://guide.rladies.org/organization/tech/brand/).
```

### R-packages and templates

Additionally, we have setup a series of witch-themed repositories and R packages to help implement RLadies+ branding with R. 

- [Glamour — Quarto extension](https://github.com/rladies/glamour)
- [Spellbind — R package with brand colours](https://rladies.org/spellbind/) ([source](https://github.com/rladies/spellbind))
- [Cloak — pkgdown theme](https://github.com/rladies/cloak)
 
## What’s next

> This process has been a long one, but every step we took was necessary to ensure that our new identity wasn’t decided by just a few people who happened to hold the power to make decisions at that moment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This process has been a long one, but every step we took was necessary to ensure that our new identity broadly captured an unmet need in our global community. 
```

 

- [Glamour — Quarto extension](https://github.com/rladies/glamour)
- [Spellbind — R package with brand colours](https://rladies.org/spellbind/) ([source](https://github.com/rladies/spellbind))

> - [Cloak — pkgdown theme](https://github.com/rladies/cloak)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cloak — pkgdown theme](https://github.com/rladies/cloak)
 
## What’s next

This process has been a long one, but every step we took was necessary to ensure that our new identity wasn’t decided by just a few people who happened to hold the power to make decisions at that moment. 

Now the process continues; we’ve reached the stage where our new name and visual identity will reach every corner where RLadies+ is present.  We know it’s a lot of work, and that along the way, questions will arise and opportunities will emerge to improve what we’ve built so far.  

We are deeply grateful to everyone who participated in this process: to those who brought the issue to our attention, to those who engaged in the discussion with honesty and genuine interest, to those who moderated it, to those who provided feedback at every stage of the process, and to those who will be using this new brand. 
```

We've provided a [full branding package](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB) — logos, templates, social media assets, manuals — so the transition doesn't mean extra design work.

**Safety comes first.**
We recognize that chapters in countries where LGBTQ+ rights are criminalized may not be able to fully adopt the new branding for safety reasons.
Local organizers know their context best, and we trust them to make the right call for their community. 
Those chapters are encouraged to reach out to the Leadership Team to discuss how to move forward.

**Programs and infrastructure carry on.**
The mentoring program, Rotating Curation on Bluesky, abstract review, community Slack, blog — all of it continues as before, now under the RLadies+ banner.

**The mission hasn't changed — the name just caught up.**
We still do what we've always done: encourage, inspire, and empower people of underrepresented genders in the R community.
The + doesn't change our direction.
It makes our direction visible.

<!--
TODO: Add link to the video of the Science Graphic Design presentation once available.
-->

## Resources

> The new branding is available across several platforms and tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new branding, with all the files and documents, is available in our - [Branding Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB?usp=sharing) 
```

> - [Templates on Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB?usp=sharing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

**Safety comes first.**
We recognize that chapters in countries where LGBTQ+ rights are criminalized may not be able to fully adopt the new branding for safety reasons.
Local organizers know their context best, and we trust them to make the right call for their community. 
Those chapters are encouraged to reach out to the Leadership Team to discuss how to move forward.

**Programs and infrastructure carry on.**
The mentoring program, Rotating Curation on Bluesky, abstract review, community Slack, blog — all of it continues as before, now under the RLadies+ banner.

**The mission hasn't changed — the name just caught up.**
We still do what we've always done: encourage, inspire, and empower people of underrepresented genders in the R community.
The + doesn't change our direction.
It makes our direction visible.

<!--
TODO: Add link to the video of the Science Graphic Design presentation once available.
-->

## Resources

The new branding is available across several platforms and tools:

> - [Branding materials repository](https://github.com/rladies/branding-materials)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

---
title: "Welcome to RLadies+"
author:
  - name: "Global Leadership Team"
description: "RLadies+ has officially launched its new visual identity. In this post, we share what changed, why it matters, and what it means for chapter organizers"
date: "2026-03-29"
categories:
  - community
slug: "rebrand-launch"
---

## Motivation

R-Ladies has always existed to support minority genders in the R community — cis and trans women, trans men, non-binary, genderqueer, and agender folks, and more.
That's been our mission since the beginning.
But we heard from community members that the name made them feel unseen and not included.

We listened and started working to fix that problem. We can't accomplish our mission if the people the organization was explicitly built to serve don't feel like they belong. 

> In March of 2025, we [announced the rebranding from R-Ladies to RLadies+](https://rladies.org/about-us/news/2025/announcement/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The + in RLadies+ is a small change to the name that allows us to maintain the well-known brand we built over 10 years of RLadies Global's existence, while making the implicit explicit. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> In a worldwide context where DEI initiatives and trans rights are under active attack, we believe it's more important than ever to be clear about who we are and who we serve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Process: how the community shaped this decision

This wasn't a top-down decision.
We took our time, and we brought the community into the conversation at every stage.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In March of 2025, we [announced the rebranding from R-Ladies to RLadies+](https://rladies.org/about-us/news/2025/announcement/). 

The + in RLadies+ is a small change to the name that allows us to maintain the well-known brand we built over 10 years of RLadies Global's existence, while making the implicit explicit. 

In a worldwide context where DEI initiatives and trans rights are under active attack, we believe it's more important than ever to be clear about who we are and who we serve.
```

**Why witch-themed**?
Throughout history, "witches" were often women of knowledge and wisdom who lived outside the norms of their societies — healers, herbalists, midwives, scholars.
They were intellectual, strong-willed, and frequently persecuted not for any wrongdoing, but for refusing to conform.

A coven was a support network.
A space where those who didn't fit gathered strength from one another.

That resonates with what RLadies+ is: a global community and support network of people in tech where those who didn’t always fit are learning, growing, and drawing strength from one another.
 

- [Glamour — Quarto extension](https://github.com/rladies/glamour)
- [Spellbind — R package with brand colours](https://rladies.org/spellbind/) ([source](https://github.com/rladies/spellbind))
- [Cloak — pkgdown theme](https://github.com/rladies/cloak)
 
## What’s next

This process has been a long one, but every step we took was necessary to ensure that our new identity wasn’t decided by just a few people who happened to hold the power to make decisions at that moment. 

> Now the process continues; we’ve reached the stage where our new name and visual identity will reach every corner where RLadies+ is present.  We know it’s a lot of work, and that along the way, questions will arise and opportunities will emerge to improve what we’ve built so far.  

Author: ```suggestion
Now the process continues; we’ve reached the stage where our new name and visual identity will reach every corner where RLadies+ is present.  
We know it’s a lot of work, and that along the way, questions will arise and opportunities will emerge to improve what we’ve built so far.  
```

---
title: "Welcome to RLadies+"
author:
  - name: "Global Leadership Team"

> description: "RLadies+ has officially launched its new visual identity — here's what changed, why it matters, and what it means for you."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "RLadies+ has officially launched its new visual identity. In this post, we share what changed, why it matters, and what it means for chapter organizers"
```

date: "2026-03-29"
categories:
  - community
slug: "rebrand-launch"
---

## Motivation

> RLadies+ has always existed to support minority genders in the R community — cis and trans women, trans men, non-binary, genderqueer, and agender folks, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
R-Ladies has always existed to support minority genders in the R community — cis and trans women, trans men, non-binary, genderqueer, and agender folks, and more.
```

That's been our mission since the beginning.

> But the name "R-Ladies" didn't say that clearly enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we heard from community members that the name made them feel unseen and not included.
```

> We heard from community members that the name made them feel unseen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> People the organization was explicitly built to serve didn't feel like the name included them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We listened and started working to fix that problem. We can't accomplish our mission if the people the organization was explicitly built to serve don't feel like they belong. 
```

> And when your branding sends a different signal than your mission, that's a problem worth fixing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The + in RLadies+ makes the implicit explicit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The + in RLadies+ is a small change to the name that allows us to maintain the well-known brand we built over 10 years of RLadies Global's existence, while making the implicit explicit. 
```

> It says: you belong here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Not as an afterthought, not as a footnote in a Code of Conduct — right there in the name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> We also want to be honest about the broader context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> In a political climate where DEI initiatives and trans rights are under active attack, we believe it's more important than ever — not less — to be clear about who we are and who we serve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a worldwide context where DEI initiatives and trans rights are under active attack, we believe it's more important than ever to be clear about who we are and who we serve.
```

Our mission is bigger than any political moment, and our name should reflect that.

> ## Process: how the community shaped this decision

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In March of 2025, we [announced the rebranding from R-Ladies to RLadies+](https://rladies.org/about-us/news/2025/announcement/). 
The + in RLadies+ makes the implicit explicit.
It says: you belong here.
Not as an afterthought, not as a footnote in a Code of Conduct — right there in the name.

We also want to be honest about the broader context.
In a political climate where DEI initiatives and trans rights are under active attack, we believe it's more important than ever — not less — to be clear about who we are and who we serve.

## Process: how the community shaped this decision
```

This wasn't a top-down decision.
We took our time, and we brought the community into the conversation at every stage.

### The discussion (April–November 2024)

In April 2024, the Global Leadership Team opened a [public discussion on GitHub](https://github.com/rladies/community/issues/10), inviting everyone to weigh in on a proposed rebrand from R-Ladies to R-Ladies+.

> The issue stayed open through November 2024 — seven months of structured conversation, facilitated by moderators from our global community to keep things productive, inclusive, and in line with our Code of Conduct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issue stayed open through November 2024. Seven months of structured conversation, facilitated by moderators from our global community to keep things productive, inclusive, and in line with our Code of Conduct.
```

The discussion was rich.
There was broad consensus that the name needed to change, but not everyone agreed on how.
Some community members proposed entirely new names.
Others preferred keeping something close to the original.

> The Leadership Team considered two paths: R-Ladies+ or a complete name change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Leadership Team considered two paths: RLadies+ or a complete name change.
```

We landed on RLadies+ for several practical reasons:

> - **No consensus on an alternative.** Many proposed names didn't translate well across languages — and as a global organization with 200+ chapters in 60+ countries, a name needs to work everywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No consensus on an alternative.** Many proposed names didn't translate well across languages. As a global organization with 200+ chapters in 60+ countries, a name needs to work everywhere.
```

- **Recognition matters.** R-Ladies has been building community and name recognition for over a decade. A complete rebrand risked fragmenting that identity, especially with today's fractured social media landscape.
- **We're volunteer-run.** A full name change across 200+ chapters, each with their own web presence and local infrastructure, would require resources we simply don't have.
- **The + does real work.** It signals broader inclusivity while keeping the identity our chapters and members have built together.

> The decision was unanimous among the Leadership Team, and was [announced in March 2025](/news/announcement/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decision was unanimous on the Board of Directors meeting, and was [announced in March 2025](/news/announcement/).
```

### The design process (2025–2026)

> Once the decision was made, the next question was: what should RLadies+ look like?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we made the decision, the next step was to start the process of creating the visual identity of RLadies+
```

We put out a [Call for Proposals](/news/cfp/) and commissioned [Science Graphic Design](https://www.sciencegraphicdesign.com/) to develop a full visual identity — logo, brand manual, templates, and imagery.

> But we didn't hand this off and wait for a finished product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The design process began, and we actively sought feedback throughout. 
```

> We actively sought feedback throughout the design process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> We set up a feedback form and reached out to chapter organizers and community members who had engaged in the GitHub discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set up a feedback form and reached out to all our chapters, chapter organizers, and community members who had engaged in the GitHub discussion.
```

We also directly contacted community members with diverse gender expressions to make sure the new branding felt right to the people it's meant to represent.

> That feedback shaped the final result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That feedback shaped the final result: a new visual identity designed with the community for the community.
```

> The new visual identity isn't just something that was designed for the community — it was designed with the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## What does this mean on a day-to-day basis?

For most community members, things will feel familiar — with a few visible changes.

**The name and branding are updated.**
You'll see RLadies+ across our website, social media, slide templates, event graphics, and communications.
The new visual identity is designed to signal inclusivity more clearly than before.

**Chapters move at their own pace.**

> We're a decentralized organization, and we respect that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're a volunteer and decentralized organization, and we respect and understand that.
```

Chapter organizers are encouraged to adopt the new name and visual identity when they're ready, with end of 2026 as the target.

> We've provided a full branding package — logos, templates, social media assets — so the transition doesn't mean extra design work for volunteers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've provided a [full branding package](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB) — logos, templates, social media assets, manuals — so the transition doesn't mean extra design work.
```

Reviewer: Add link to the google drive

**Safety comes first.**

> We recognize that chapters in countries where LGBTQ+ rights are criminalized may not be able to safely adopt the new branding.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recognize that chapters in countries where LGBTQ+ rights are criminalized may not be able to fully adopt the new branding for safety reasons.
```

> That's okay.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Local organizers know their context best, and we trust them to make the right call for their community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Local organizers know their context best, and we trust them to make the right call for their community. 
Those chapters are encouraged to reach out to the Leadership Team to discuss how to move forward.
```

**Programs and infrastructure carry on.**
The mentoring program, Rotating Curation on Bluesky, abstract review, community Slack, blog — all of it continues as before, now under the RLadies+ banner.

**The mission hasn't changed — the name just caught up.**

> We still do what we've always done: encourage, inspire, and empower people of minority genders in the R community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We still do what we've always done: encourage, inspire, and empower people of underrepresented genders in the R community.
```

The + doesn't change our direction.
It makes our direction visible.

<!--
TODO: Add link to the video of the Science Graphic Design presentation once available.
-->

## Resources

The new branding is available across several platforms and tools:

> - [Branding materials repository](https://github.com/rladies/branding-materials)

Reviewer 2: to do: update repo

Author: https://github.com/rladies/branding-materials/pull/3

- [Templates on Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UV940p-KN9FWoHt4yrZnrc2oAczGw9QB?usp=sharing)

### R-packages and templates

> Additionally, we have set-up some repositories and R-package to help implement RLadies+ branding in your R-work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we have setup a series of witch-themed repositories and R packages to help implement RLadies+ branding with R. 
```

> In a series of witch-themed libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

**Why witch-themed**?

> Throughout history, "witches" were often women of knowledge and wisdom who lived outside the norms of their societies — healers, herbalists, midwives, scholars.

Reviewer: I love learning about this and the name choosing! 
I have a question: as this is the blog post announcing our new name as an organization. Do we think it is a good idea to also explain the name of our tooling here?    

We can add this explanation to the tooling repo and/or documentation.  
Perhaps we can write another blog post to provide more details on this work, since we also have jinx, for example...

Reviewer: @rladies/leadership can you please react to this question?

Author: this makes sense.  I can remove this explanation, and then work on a blogpost in stead :)

Reviewer: Thank you @drmowinckels

They were intellectual, strong-willed, and frequently persecuted not for any wrongdoing, but for refusing to conform.

> A coven, then, was more than folklore — it was a support network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A coven was a support network.
```

A space where those who didn't fit gathered strength from one another.

> That resonates with what RLadies+ is: a global coven of people in tech who've been told, in ways big and small, that they don't belong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That resonates with what RLadies+ is: a global community and support network of people in tech where those who didn’t always fit are learning, growing, and drawing strength from one another.
```

> We chose witch-themed names for our tooling as a small act of reclaiming — turning a label once used to silence into one that empowers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```
